The primary reason for writing this project is because network manager (mangler) sucks and the only alternative wicd never managed to aquire dhcp. Wpa_supplicant also doesn't have a very friendly interface, especially concerning configured network selection and adding new connections without adding them to the configuration file.

This program (currently modnet) is designed to be a one-stop, total network manager similar to network manager. It will however only cover wireless networks with wpa_supplicant and dhcp, also supporting other dhcp-only interfaces (dhclient or dhcpcd). It will be able to setup an interface as the internet route (set default route), or only local traffic (limited to subnet of network's ip address). Wpa_supplicant will be used (over unix socket or dbus) to scan, and connect to wireless networks, but selection will remain with this program (being aware of the possible SSIDs). Dhcp clients will do the major ip-address grunt work, but manual ipaddress configuration is planned. A privilaged module will be required to start certain programs, using a group to signify authority to communicate. A client module will perform the main logic with the user, and a gui module will allow it to be controlled.

A gui and commandline interface are planned. with commandline being priority. The program will be designed in such a way that either interface simply plugs into the core of the client module. The program will be written in python, using most likely gtk (or glade, a gtk wrapper).

This program will present you with a list of interfaces, of which you can attach a 'connection' too. Two connections will exist by default, non-wireless local and non-wireless global; with the first being no default route, the second having a default route. More wireless connections can be added, with an SSID, password (or prompt), type, local/global mode. Static configurations can also be added, even as non-wireless connections. The program wil have an automatic mode, with connections marked as automatic being considered for connection (out of scanned networks).